# B&H Dry-Fire Integrated Training System

In the Spring of 2018, an idea was brought to me by a coworker for a dry-fire firearm training system that could provide both real-time feedback and long-term performance analytics. I was to be the primary hardware and software engineer, and my coworker was responsible for the business operations. The goal of this system was to allow police and other responsible firearm owners to practice advanced shooting drills that typically cannot be performed safetly with the use of live ammunition. The system consisted of one or more "smart targets" that the user would configure and monitor using a custom application installed on their phone. The smart targets were fully integrated embedded systems utilizing the raspberry pi platform as the microcontroller and a camera module which was used to analyze video in real-time to detect "hits" from the user.

The "ammunition" in this system was a laser bullet that came in a variety of standard calibers. You can see an example [here](https://www.laserammo.com/store/Training-Lasers/Laser-Cartridges-for-your-Firearms/Laser-Cartridges/SureStrike-9mm-Cartridge). When the firing pin was engaged, it would strike the button on the back of the laser cartridge which would emit a short red (visible) laser burst. The video feed from the integrated camera on the smart target was processed and analyzed to not only detect the presence of the laser strike, but also where the target was struck so that accuracy could be measured. Strikes from laser bursts were recorded and stored in memory on the microcontroller.

WIP. Coming soon!
