# Welcome to My Portfolio

This repository aims to showcase my journey as a person, as a student, and as a professional with a lifelong passion for learning and continued education in the fields of Computer Science and Electrical and Computer Engineering.

## Table of Contents

- [Who is Dave?](#who-is-dave)
  1. [My Early Years](#my-early-years)
  2. [Soon After High School](#soon-after-high-school)
  3. [Dreams of Higher Education are Realized](#dreams-of-higher-education-are-realized)
  4. [My Love of Computing: Evolved](#my-love-of-computing-evolved)
  5. [What's Next?](#whats-next)

# Who is Dave?

## My Early Years

I was born and raised in Massachusetts. My mother and father struggled with addiction, which made it difficult for them to support me and my younger sister. We relied on government assistance for all of our basic necessities. We were granted housing assistance through the [Section 8](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Section_8_(housing)) program and relied on the [WIC](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WIC_program) and [food stamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Food_stamp) programs for food and groceries. While I'm thankful that it kept a roof over our heads, it all but guaranteed that my sister and I were going to be raised in some pretty challenging environments. That proved to be a very real reality. 

We moved around the north shore of Massachusetts very frequently. By the time I was 6 years old, I had already lived in at least
5 different cities and towns around the state. Shortly before entering kindergarten (grade "0"), my mother moved my sister and I into our first apartment in the city of Woburn. It was here that I would finally find some stability in the form of my first real friend, and a group of consistent classmates that I would advance with through grade school. 

When it was time for me to attend high school, my family had convinced me to attend the vocational high school in Wakefield, MA. Most of the reasoning was that it was unlikely I would attend college due to the financial hurdles. Vocational high school required passing admissions exams but it was free if you were accepted. I could at least have a chance to learn a valuable skill during high school that would provide employment after graduation. This thrust me into a brand new learning environment that had nearly zero of the classmates from my time in the Woburn school system. I had to adapt and decide what I was gong to focus on very early in life. 

You are required to visit every shop in a vocational high school during your freshman year. This is called the "exploratory period". During this time, you spend one week in every shop learning about the trade and essentially being sold on its benefits. As expected, there are some shops that are very popular. These include the primary trades of Electrical, Plumbing, HVAC, Carpentry, and Welding. In order to get into one of these shops, you must not only pass each exploratory shop, you must excel at them. Plumbing and Electrical were by far the most desired trades when I was in school. Plumbing was recommended by several family members, mostly because they believed that plumbers were highly valuable and received good pay for their work. I was much more passionate about electrical, welding, and computers, however 'passion' was not one of the core tenets of my family's decision making framework. 

I chose Plumbing and despite not being my preferred option, performed very well. I spent my senior year on co-op working for a top-rated plumbing company in Malden, MA which is a privilege that only top senior students are granted. After graduation, I accepted a full-time position with that same company as an apprentice plumber with nearly 1 year of experience out of high school. I continued to work for roughly one year before deciding that I simply did not have any desire to continue with the plumbing trade. I took a hard look at my life and made the difficult, and risky, decision to move away from a field I knew to find a field that I truly loved. Passion has always been a primary motivator for me. When I'm passionate about a subject, I can effortlessly apply myself at the deepest levels. The search to find work that I was truly passionate about had begun.

## Soon After High School 
I had always had a love for computers. I took a job as a retail employee at a now defunct company called [CompUSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CompUSA). It was there that I discovered the field of personal computer (PC) repair. I slowly introduced myself to the field through networking with repair techs at the store, and decided that I wanted to join their team. I went to my local [Barnes and Noble](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barnes_%26_Noble) book store and picked up as many PC repair books as I could afford. I ended up obtaining the [A+](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CompTIA#Professional_level_certifications) and [Network+](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CompTIA#Professional_level_certifications) certifications from [CompTIA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CompTIA) and got a job as a repair tech.

After some time working at CompUSA, I decided to take a position at a local [Circuit City](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circuit_City) store. I was tasked with being one of the first employees of that location's [Firedog](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circuit_City#Firedog) PC repair shop. I had to adapt quickly. Not only was I responsible for fixing most computers that came through the doors, I also had to help bootstrap that location from the ground up. Most customers did not know what Firedog was and we received very little help from the corporate offices on how to run the PC repair locations. I applied what I knew and learning whatever I could in order to create a professional repair shop environment. I even went so far as to prepare and paint the room that we would use to repair machines that customers brought in. The Firedog colors were black and very bright green. I never knew why those colors were chosen. 

My early career as a computer technician came to an abrupt halt. On November 23, 2006 while driving my sister and I to a family meal on Thanksgiving, a driver on the opposite side of the highway 495 had a seizure behind the wheel, crossed the highway median, and struck us head-on at roughly 65 MPH. My sister was wearing her seatbelt, but the forces were so strong that she hit her head on the dashboard, causing instant brain-death at the scene. I was severely physically wounded, snapping my right femur in half and a pulverized right wrist. We were rushed to different hospitals. My sister was pronounced dead shortly after arrival. I went through several major surgeries while drifting in and out of consciousness. From what I can remember, I was hospitalized for at least two weeks. Needless to say, that was an extremely traumatic point in my life.

I spent the next six months rehabilitating myself. I went through physical therapy multiple times a week and spent most of my downtime slowly working my atrophied leg muscles back to a point where I could at least stand on my own. I slowly but persistently made progress hour after hour, day after day, week after week. Once I was able to walk using crutches, I forced myself to move and care for myself as much as my body and mind would allow. I eventually graduated to walking the mall. First with crutches, then without. When I first started, I could barely make it from the car to the front door. I continued to work at it, eventually being able to walk for minutes at a time without requiring a break. 

I no longer needed crutches and was slowly regaining strength and control of my right hand. I decided it was time to get back to work. I returned to Circuit City as a repair tech but I learned that most of the people I worked with had left for better positions at [Best Buy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Best_Buy) working for [Geek Squad](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geek_Squad). Geek Squad was, and probably still is, the most famous PC repair company in the United States. They were well established and mature, so I was very excited to work with them especially since I already knew several techs from Circuit City. 

Shortly after I began work with Geek Squad, a tech I worked with graduated college and left Geek Squad to work for a company in Waltham, MA. They were a global payments processor for health insurance credit cards, mainly [FSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flexible_spending_account) and [HSA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Health_savings_account) accounts. He was working on the database support team and asked if I would like to interview to come work with the team. I interviewed with the company and was offered a position on the team, which I promptly accepted. It was here that I would ultimately discover a love for software development. 

I excelled in my new role. The role allowed me to exercise my analytical and critical thinking skills in ways that I had never done before. It was addicting and I had a constant drive to learn more about the systems that I was supporting, along with the systems that were supporting those systems, etc. We used a popular [CRM](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Customer_relationship_management) software to manage our support requests. All of the customizations for the platform were done in-house by a senior member of the support staff. He was eventually was promoted and left the support team. I quickly offered to fill the role and learn the system so that we could continue to customize it to our needs. This was my first taste of professional software development and it sparked a lifelong passion for the field. 

## Dreams of Higher Education are Realized

Higher education was never presented to me as an attainable goal by any of my family or grade school advisors. 

I researched everything I could about financial aid to understand what was available and began to put myself through college. I initially chose Electrical Engineering but later changed to Computer Science after taking several programming courses. I did not have a financial support system so I continued to work full time while attending university. While this added time and difficulty to the degree, I learned several very valuable lessons. First and foremost, the discipline applied to a goal directly correlates to the probability that you will achieve that goal. Secondly, it is likely that many people will question you while you are on your journey so it is vitally important that you understand the "why" behind your decisions. Lastly, never underestimate the power of a good network. I consistently worked directly with my professors and fellow students which contributed greatly to my success as a student. 

I graduated from the University of Massachusetts, Boston with a BS in Computer Science. My journey to obtain an undergraduate degree was unorthodox but in retrospect, I would not change anything about it. The experiences I gained through life's hardships and hard-won accomplishments have molded me into a versatile and resilient professional with a life-long passion for learning. I thrive in the unknown and have a proven track record of identifying and solving complex problems utilizing a blend of theory, experimentation, and creative problem solving. 

## My Love of Computing: Evolved

While professionally I have been strictly in the software and computer science domain, personally I spend a lot of time learning and applying the fundamentals of electrical and computer engineering. The highly complex interaction between hardware and software fascinates me. It's magical, in a sense. Merging fundamental theories of physics with lumped abstractions to create real, physical components that can be combined in highly complex ways to create the machines that power the world and move humanity forward.

In my spare time, I have read multiple books and taken multiple courses online. I am finishing up a fantastic book called [Practical Electronics for Inventors](https://www.amazon.com/Practical-Electronics-Inventors-Fourth-Scherz/dp/1259587541) which covers everything from circuit fundamentals to the theory and application of diodes, transistors, opamps, servo and stepper motors, and integrated circuits. I also purchased and queued up [The Art of Electronics](https://a.co/d/8BRuxCv), a true classic authored by Paul Horowitz and Winfield Hill. I have also utilized the fantastic library of electrical and computer engineering courses offered by [MITx](https://mitxonline.mit.edu/) and [edX](https://www.edx.org/) when available.

I apply what I learn through the design and development of sufficiently complex embedded systems. The two projects I'm most proud of are the [B&H Dry-Fire Integrated Training System](./projects/bh-firearm-training-system.md) and my current project, a [smart system for heavy-bag & boxing training](./projects/heavybag-boxing-training-system.md). Those links bring you to the project detail pages which give you an in-depth tour of how both myself and the projects evolved over time. 


## What's Next?

This brings us to current day. Professionally, I have worked in many codebases and faced a multitude of challenging and diverse problems. While I love what I do, something is missing. That "something", as I have slowly come to realize, is that I need to go deeper into the computer engineering field. I'm no longer satisfied at the "high-level" and have learned that I need to expose myself to the lowest levels of computing. Like I have said before, I love to learn. My first step to accomplishing this goal is to seek out higher education specific to electrical and computer engineering. I believe I have the required fundamental knowledge and skillsets to succeed and thrive in a graduate computer engineering curriculum. 

Therefore, I am formally applying to universities with strong ECE graduate programs. I hope this portfolio has portrayed my excitement and eagerness to get back into the classroom and labs to learn about a field that I truly love. I welcome any and all questions through the primary communication channels specified on my application, and I thank you very much for your consideration.


